

In 1903 Mary Anderson patented the first windshield wiper. While riding a streetcar in New York City in 1902 during a rainstorm, Anderson noticed that the streetcar operator was struggling with extremely poor visibility, causing him to open his window and stick his head out. Upon seeing this, Anderson automatically began drawing up the design for a windshield wiper operated by the driver to help improve visibility.This manual mechanism operated a set of wood and rubber arms with a lever, helping clear away snow, rain, and debris. Anderson’s invention never took off, though, and she never truly benefited financially from the invention.

In 1919 The automatic windshield wiper was introduced by William M. Folberth.It wasn’t until 1916 that windshield wipers were standard equipment on most vehicles, allowing for further advancements in the technology.William M. Folberth,  patented the first automatic, non-hand-driven windshield wipers in 1919. These automatic windshield wipers used a vacuum-powered system to clear the windshield, which became standard equipment on automobiles. This vacuum-powered system was widely used until 1960s, when the use of intermittent wipers became more common.
In 1969 Robert Kearns introduces the intermittent windshield wiper different inventors patented the idea of intermittent wipers, but the idea truly took hold thanks to Robert Kearns, an engineering professor at Wayne State University in Detroit, Michigan. Kearns’ invention was brought to the attention of the Ford Motor Company when he proposed manufacturing the design. While this proposal led to a patent dispute between the American carmaker and Kearns, the invention also led us to the windshield wipers we have today.


 German luxury carmaker Mercedes-Benz offers an advanced windshield washing system Magic Vision Control in its premium segment vehicles. This system incorporates heated wiper blade systems for winter weather conditions along with a wipe-and-wash configuration. Other leading European automakers like Audi and BMW are also offering advanced technology in the automotive wiper systems.
Wipers are one of the most critical safety components on any vehicle, but sometimes they also cause a distraction by their movement on the windshield. To prevent this diversion, McLaren, a British automotive manufacturer, has come up with ultrasonic force fields to replace wipers. McLaren has developed a new automotive windshield cleaning technology, the idea of which has been derived from fighter jets.
Advances in the field of wiper blade technology are evident with the development of new systems that promise to provide clear visibility of the road ahead. Automotive component designers and developers are developing wiper blade systems that deliver faster response time and streak-free visibility in extreme weather conditions. The advanced heated wiper blade system consists of the heated fluid within the blade frame, which is used to provide a clear, streak-free view of the road ahead. It offers maximum convenience when ice freezes on the windshield and aids in wiping out salt stains from the windshield. The technology not only helps in removing snow and ice but also aids drivers in getting rid of dust and dirt.
